   H9a. The positive association between work-related GenAI use and exploitative learning  European Journal
            is moderated by perceived ease of use such that it is weaker in the case of high      of Innovation
         perceived ease of use.                                                 Management

   H9b. The positive association between work-related GenAI use and explorative learning
            is moderated by perceived ease of use such that it is weaker in the case of high
         perceived ease of use.

   H9c. The positive association between nonwork-related GenAI use and exploitative
         learning is moderated by perceived ease of use such that it is weaker in the case of
         high perceived ease of use.

   H9d. The positive association between nonwork-related GenAI use and explorative
         learning is moderated by perceived ease of use such that it is weaker in the case of
         high perceived ease of use.

Based on the above analysis, this study introducesconceptual model to explore the relationship
between the GenAI use and employee creativity. Our conceptual model is reflected in Figure 1.


4. Research methods
4.1 Measurement items
The measurement items for each variable in this study were based on scales from the literature
and were adapted for the research context. As shown in the Table 1, work-related and
nonwork-related GenAI use were adapted from scales of Zhang et al. (2019) and Sun et al.
(2022). The measurement items for exploitative and exploratory learning were adapted from
the scales of Zheng et al. (2023). The measurement items for incremental and radical creativity
were adapted from the scales of Madjar et al. (2011). The measurement items for perceived
ease of use were adapted from the scales of Moussawi et al. (2020) and Jo (2023). This study
used a seven-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree) to
measure all items. Given that the data collection was conducted in China, the English-Chinese
back-translation method was adopted  to design the  questionnaire. In  addition, the
questionnaire was designed with the help of two professors and three PhD students in the



                               Perceived Ease of Use


                                               Employee Learning

                                                          Exploitative learning
         GenAI Use                                                                 Employee Creativity

     Work-related GenAI use                                                                     Incremental creativity





    Nonwork-related GenAI use                                                                    Radical creativity


                                                        Explorative learning

 Source(s): Authors’ work

                                   Figure 1. Research model