Table 1. Measurement items                                                       European Journal
                                                                                          of Innovation
Constructs                           Measurement items                                 Management

Work-related GenAI use (Sun et al., 2022;  WAU1: In my daily work, I use GenAI assistants to obtain ideas
Zhang et al., 2019)                     and participate in work-related discussion
                             WAU2: In my daily work, I use GenAI assistants to acquire
                                            solutions for work problems
                             WAU3: In my daily work, I use GenAI assistants in my daily work
                                              to ask work-related questions
                             WAU4: In my daily work, I use GenAI assistants in my daily work
                                              to get work-related knowledge
Nonwork-related GenAI use (Sun et al.,   NAU1: In the organization, I use GenAI assistants for social
2022; Zhang et al., 2019)                     activities advices
                              NAU2: In the organization, I maintain close social relationships
                                        with GenAI assistants
                              NAU3: In the organization, I use GenAI assistants handle social
                                                 activities
                              NAU4: In the organization, I use GenAI assistants to take a break
                                     from work
                              NAU5: In the organization, I use GenAI assistants to relax and
                                              entertain myself
Exploitative learning (Zheng et al., 2023)   EIL1: Since using GenAI assistants, to what extent have you
                                         continuously consolidated and learned knowledge and skills in
                                       your business areas?
                                      EIL2: Since using GenAI assistants, to what extent have you
                                     improved your existing knowledge and skills?
                                      EIL3: Since using GenAI assistants, to what extent have you
                                       developed capabilities in gradually searching for existing
                                            solutions to work problems?
Exploratory learning (Zheng et al., 2023)  ERL1: Since using GenAI assistants, to what extent have you
                                          learned new skills and knowledge in your current job?
                                 ERL2: Since using GenAI assistants, to what extent have you
                                         taken the initiative to learn new skills and knowledge in certain
                                     domains?
                                 ERL3: Since using GenAI assistants, to what extent have you
                                         acquired entirely new skills and knowledge that are important for
                                       your current job?
Incremental creativity (Madjar et al.,       IC1: I am good at adapting already existing ideas at work
2011)                                   IC2: I can easily modify previously existing work processes to suit
                                            current needs
                                        IC3: I can use previously existing ideas or work in an appropriate
                                new way
Radical creativity (Madjar et al., 2011)    RC1: I suggest radically new ways for doing my work
                                  RC2: I can demonstrate originality at work
                                  RC3: I can come up with highly creative ideas at work
Perceived ease of use (Jo, 2023;         PEU1: Interaction with the GenAI assistants does not require a lot
Moussawi et al., 2020)                     of my mental effort
                                 PEU2: I find the GenAI assistants to be easy to use
                                 PEU3: I found that learning to use GenAI assistants is easy for me
Source(s): Authors’ work based on Zhang et al. (2019), Sun et al. (2022), Zheng et al. (2023), Madjar et al.
(2011), Moussawi et al. (2020) and Jo (2023)



composite reliability values for each construct ranged from 0.844 to 0.891, which exceeded the
threshold level of 0.7, indicating good reliability. This study tested convergent validity and
discriminant validity to assess validity. The average variance extracted (AVE) values for each
construct exceeded 0.6, and all factor loadings values in the Table 4 exceeded 0.7, indicating
good convergent validity. In addition, the square root of the AVE for each construct in the