B.I.J.M. Van der Heijden et al.                                                                                  Journal of Vocational Behavior 106 (2018) 236–248


3.2. Measures


   Employability was assessed with Van der Heijde and Van der Heijden's (2006) measurement instrument which has proven to have
sound psychometric qualities (see also Van der Heijden & Bakker, 2011; Van der Heijden, De Lange, Demerouti, & Van der Heijde,
2009). The full instrument includes ﬁve sub-scales measuring: occupational expertise (15 items); anticipation and optimization (8
items); personal ﬂexibility (8 items); corporate sense (7 items); and balance (9 items) (see Van der Heijde & Van der Heijden, 2006 for
the full item list and see Appendix A for the short-form ﬁnal measurement instrument). The item sets were all scored on a six-point
rating scale. Example items were: “I consider myself … competent to weigh up and reason out the ‘pros’ and ‘cons’ of particular
decisions of working methods, materials, and techniques in my job domain” (occupational expertise) (answering categories ranging
from “not at all” to “extremely” and Cronbach's alpha (α) ranging from 0.75 to 0.87 across the diﬀerent samples); “I consciously
devote attention to applying my newly acquired knowledge and skills” (anticipation and optimization) (answering categories ranging
from “never” to “very often” and α ranging from 70 to 0.80; “I adapt to developments within my organization …” (personal ﬂexibility)
(answering categories ranging from “very badly” to “very well” and α ranging from 0.74 to 0.81; “In my organization, I take part in
forming a common vision of values and goals” (corporate sense) (answering categories ranging from “never” to “very often” and α
ranging from 0.72 to 0.83; and “The time I spend on my work and career development on the one hand and my personal development
and relaxation on the other are … evenly balanced” (balance) (answering categories ranging from “not at all” to “to a considerable
degree” and α ranging from 0.63 to 0.79. Moreover, elaborate tests of the psychometric aspects of the two nominal identical versions
of the instrument (self-report and supervisor version) that have been developed (see Van der Heijde & Van der Heijden, 2006), that is,
reliability and validity, testing convergent-, discriminant- and predictive validity (for career success) have yielded very promising
results (see Van der Heijde & Van der Heijden, 2006; Van der Heijden et al., 2005).
   Next, we will highlight the measures of the criterion variables in the order of the samples presented in this article. In Data set C,
two criterion variables were used. Aﬀective commitment was measured using the widely adopted eight-item scale by Allen and Meyer
(1990). The respondents had to indicate on a ﬁve-point Likert scale to which extent they agreed with the statements (with scale
anchors ranging from “totally disagree” to “totally agree”). The two following items had low factor loadings and substantially
decreased the psychometric qualities of the measure: “I think that I could easily become as attached to another organization as I am to
this one” and “I do not feel a ‘strong’ sense of belonging to my organization.” Therefore, these items were eliminated from further
analyses. The remaining six items had suﬃcient reliability with Cronbach's alpha being 0.75. Individual performance was measured
with the self-assessment scale from Goodman and Svyantek (1999). Example items were: “You achieve the criteria for performance”
and “You achieve the goals” (with ﬁve scale anchors ranging from “complete disagree” to “completely agree”). Cronbach's alpha was
0.85.
   In Data set D, innovative work behavior was included as the criterion variable. It was measured by using the thoroughly validated
scale developed by Janssen (2000). In this nine-item scale, three items referred to idea generation, three to idea promotion, and three
to idea realization. To prevent common-method bias, the supervisor ratings were used in our analyses. Examples for the supervisor
ratings were: “This worker creates new ideas for improvements” (idea generation; α = 0.90); “This worker mobilizes support for
innovative ideas” (idea promotion; α = 0.92); and “This worker transforms innovative ideas into useful applications” (idea reali-
zation; α = 0.90). The items were scored using a seven-point rating scale with a response format ranging from “never” to “always.”
    Finally, in Data set E, subjective career success was incorporated as the criterion variable. It was measured with Gattiker and
Larwood's (1986) instrument, consisting of the following ﬁve sub-scales: job satisfaction (8 items, α = 0.67), interpersonal success (4
items, α = 0.58), ﬁnancial success (3 items, α = 0.68), hierarchical success (4 items, α = 0.61), and life success (4 items, α = 0.67).
The ﬁrst four components comprise organizational success, while the ﬁfth dimension comprises non-organizational success. Examples
items were: “I am receiving positive feedback about my performance from all quarters” (job satisfaction); “I am respected by my
peers” (interpersonal success); “I am drawing a high income compared to my peers” (ﬁnancial success); “I am pleased with the
promotions I have received so far” (hierarchical success); “I am satisﬁed with my life overall” (life success). All items were scored
using a ﬁve-point rating scale with a response format ranging from “disagree completely” to “agree completely.”


3.3. Analyses


  We used list-wise deletion in Mplus. Hence, individuals who had a missing on any one of the indicators were omitted from all
further analyses. With respect to kurtosis and skewness, Mplus provides a simple piece of information, that is the scaling factor
(Muthén & Muthén, 2013). If the scaling factor to correct the χ2 is close to 1, the multivariate normality assumption is not violated.
The scaling factor to correct for the χ2 was 1.1682, 1.1620, and 1.0711 for, respectively, Data set C, Data set D, and Data set E.
   Following Jöreskog and Sörbom (2001), we ﬁrst studied the exact ﬁt, that is, the chi-square (χ2) statistic using Mplus 7.11
(Muthén & Muthén, 2013). As a perfect ﬁt is rarely obtained, Jöreskog and Sörbom advise to use an approximate ﬁt measure.
Therefore, we incorporated the RMSEA, (P)RMSEA, CFI and TLI and the SRMR as well. The RMSEA is a measure of the average
standardized residual per degree of freedom and values below 0.08 can be considered as favorable (Browne & Cudeck, 1993). The (P)
RMSEA is a one-sided test of the null hypothesis stating that the RMSEA equals 0.05, comprising a close-ﬁtting model. If the p
is > 0.05 (i.e., not statistically signiﬁcant), it can be concluded that the ﬁt of the model is “close” (Kenny, 2014). The CFI (Com-
parative Fit Index) and TLI (Tucker-Lewis Index) are measures of the relative improvement in ﬁt of the hypothesized model compared
with the null model and values above 0.90 can be considered favorable (Hu & Bentler, 1999; Medsker, Williams, & Holahan, 1994).
The SRMR is a measure of the average absolute correlation residual and values below 0.10 are considered to be appropriate (Kline,
2005). Finally, we also used descriptive measures to assess the ﬁt of the speciﬁc factor structure. Because of concerns about non-

                                                               240