such counterfactuals precisely, these responses are informative in three ways.

    First, the fact that virtually all non-adopters report no earnings impact suggests that

occupation-wide spillovers are minimal. Despite broad adoption and changes in work

content, AI chatbots do not appear to have shifted equilibrium wages or hours—reinforcing

the conclusion from our identification analysis in Section 3.1 that the “missing intercept”

remains small.

   Second, even adopters report small average earnings impacts, ranging from 0% to 0.5%

depending on occupation and employer chatbot initiatives. These estimates are an order

of magnitude smaller than the time savings reported in Section 2.2 and fall within the

confidence intervals of the difference-in-differences estimates for earnings in Section 3.2.

   Third, the limited average earnings impacts primarily reflect the overwhelming share

of workers reporting no change—rather than large positive and negative effects offsetting

each other.  This supports the conclusion that AI chatbots have not had significant

heterogeneous impacts on workers’ earnings.

   Taken together, these self-reported perceptions from workers in the most exposed

occupations reinforce our finding that AI chatbots have so far had limited impacts on

earnings in the labor market.


4  Conclusion


This paper studies how labor markets adjust at the onset of major technological change,

providing large-scale evidence on the early impacts of AI chatbots—the most widely

adopted generative AI tool to date. By linking extensive surveys on AI chatbot adoption

and work organization in 11 exposed occupations to administrative labor market records

in Denmark, we document both what moves and what does not.

  What moves is the structure of work. Most employers in exposed occupations have

implemented chatbot initiatives, workers report substantial productivity benefits, and new

AI-related tasks have emerged broadly—especially in workplaces that encourage and invest

in the tools. These patterns are consistent with task-based theories of technology adoption


                                      33