456    HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT, Fall 2006


         interests as well as one’s own opposing work,    that some characteristics of expert perform-
                      career, and private interests (em-   ance and of employability are valid regard-
                   ployee) and between employers’    less of the domain of expertise of a particular
                and employees’ interests. Paauwe    professional (see also B. I. J. M. Van der Heij-
While we are aware  (1997) claims that employability   den, 2000, for a more elaborate discussion
                          is out of the question without an   on the aim and value of a domain-independ-
 of rater bias among                 honest exchange relationship be-   ent tool). The proposed five dimensions of
                tween employer and employee, a   employability are measured by means of five    supervisors
                    relationship where both  parties   measurement scales ranging in length from
(Thornton & Byham,  balance  their investments and   seven to fifteen items scored on a six-point
                     profits (see also Bolweg & Maen-    rating scale. Examples of scale anchors are as
      1982), we                  hout, 1995; Van Dam & Thierry,    follows: not at all, to a considerable degree,
                  2000, on the exchange theory).      never, and very often. For a full outline of allnevertheless wish to
                   Working  life  is characterized    scale items, see Appendix A.
 emphasize the use   by strongly competing demands
                   that are not easily balanced. In-  Sample and Procedure
  of this group of     creasingly, organizations have to
                   deal with paradox (Handy, 1994).   The sample selected to test the psychometric
raters with regard to
                  Organizations often refer to em-    qualities  of the measurement instrument
 the key role played   ployability as the deployment of    consists of two groups of respondents: the
                    their personnel, a terminology   employees themselves and their immediate
 by their perception   that implies pawns without initia-    supervisors. One effective and valid manner
                     tive that can be moved around    for measuring a concept is to use multiple
    in the career
                      like chess  pieces, while  at the   measurements and preferably to use both ob-
  progress of the    same time, employability refers to    jective as well as subjective measurements,
                  highly self-reliant and self-manag-    since these provide  different  perspectives
employee. Moreover,  ing employees. Moreover, organi-   (Borman, 1974; Klimoski & London, 1974).
                    zations ask for highly committed   However, qualitative dimensions of work per-
  self-ratings have                and at the same time highly flexi-   formance are known to be difficult to obtain
                    ble employees. Bolweg and Maen-   from objective measurements (Hennessey &been demonstrated
                 hout (1995) refer to the so-called    Bernardin, 2003). For this reason, we opted
 to be more reliable  management paradox to indicate    for supervisor ratings along with self-ratings
                     this development. Another para-    to best capture the behaviors beneficial to im-
when employees are                dox with which employees are   proving work and career outcomes.
                  confronted  is the need to both      While we are aware of rater bias among aware that ratings
                     specialize and  despecialize. Ac-    supervisors (Thornton & Byham, 1982), we
are also being given  cording to Weick (1996), being    nevertheless wish to emphasize the use of
                   able to alternate between these    this group of raters with regard to the key
by their supervisors,  two is highly beneficial in pres-    role played by their perception in the career
                  ent-day boundaryless careers. Em-    progress of the employee. Moreover, self-
   because the
                   ployees also have (increasing!) in-    ratings have been demonstrated to be more
  leniency effect is    terests that are difficult to unite,    reliable when employees are aware that rat-
                     at the work process level, (career)    ings are also being given by their supervi-
    suppressed.     developmental level, and private    sors (Mabe & West, 1982), because the le-
                     level (Bolweg & Maenhout, 1995;   niency  effect   is  suppressed  (Arnold &
               Van Beckhoven, 1997).            MacKenzie Daveys, 1992; Campbell & Lee,
                                                   1988; Harris & Schaubroeck, 1988; Hoff-
                                            man, Nathan, & Holden, 1991; Holzbach,
      Research Methodology
                                                     1978). We test for rater bias in supervisor
       The measurement  of employability  pre-   and self-ratings in the validity analyses and
        sented in this article is based upon the idea    report these in our results.


                                                                          Human Resource Management DOI: 10.1002/hrm