    A Competence-Based and Multidimensional Operationalization and Measurement of Employability     475


 A P P E N D I X  A


Occupational Expertise

1.    I consider myself competent to engage in in-depth, specialist discussions in my job domain.

2.  During the past year, I was, in general, competent to perform my work accurately and with few mistakes.

3.  During the past year, I was, in general, competent to take prompt decisions with respect to my approach
    to work.

4.    I consider myself competent to indicate when my knowledge is insufficient to perform a task or solve a
    problem.

5.    I consider myself competent to provide information on my work in a way that is comprehensible.

6.  In general, I am competent to distinguish main issues from side issues and to set priorities.

7.  During the past year, I was, in general, competent to carry out my work independently.

8.    I consider myself competent to be of practical assistance to colleagues with questions about the approach
    to work.

9.    I consider myself competent to weigh up and reason out the “pros” and “cons” of particular decisions on
   working methods, materials, and techniques in my job domain.

10. Overall, how do you see yourself in terms of your work performance?

11. How much confidence do you have in your capacities within your area of expertise?

12. How would you rate the quality of your skills overall?

13. What proportion of your work would you say you brought to a successful conclusion in the past year?

14.  I have a ___ opinion of how well I performed in the past year.

15. During the past year, how sure of yourself have you felt at work?


Anticipation and Optimization

1.  How much time do you spend improving the knowledge and skills that will be of benefit to your work?

2.    I take responsibility for maintaining my labor market value.

3.    I approach the development of correcting my weaknesses in a systematic manner.

4.    I am focused on continuously developing myself.

5.    I consciously devote attention to applying my newly acquired knowledge and skills.

6.  In formulating my career goals, I take account of external market demand.

7.  During the past year, I was actively engaged in investigating adjacent job areas to see where success
    could be achieved.

8.  During the past year, I associated myself with the latest developments in my job domain.


Personal Flexibility

1.  How easily would you say you can adapt to changes in your workplace?

2. How easily would you say you are able to change organizations, if necessary?

3.    I adapt to developments within my organization.

4. How quickly do you generally anticipate and take advantage of changes in your working environment?

5. How quickly do you generally anticipate and take advantage of changes in your sector?

6. How much variation is there in the range of duties you aim to achieve in your work?

7.    I have a ______(very negative-very positive) attitude to changes in my function.

8.    I find working with new people __________ (very unpleasant-very pleasant).

                                                                                                                                       (continued)


Human Resource Management DOI: 10.1002/hrm